---
layout: post
title:      "An Unconventional Path"
date:       2020-07-21 07:41:05 +0000
permalink:  an_unconventional_path
---


Too many options. Analysis paralysis. That had been my life up to this point. As a high school graduate in Costa Rica in 2011, I thought I wanted to take on the world of hospitality. Hotel management, service, and contributing to the enjoyment of others was highly intriguing. As quickly as that interest and excitement came, a few months later it was gone. Through the suggestion of a former classmate, I ended up studying sound engineering and music production at an art school in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. I never crossed the finish line, but the experience was life-changing nonetheless. 3 semesters in and nothing to show for it, I went back to my hometown of Miami. One thing I remember vividly from that time at home was my father. Hunched over his iMac, designing websites, making applications, learning new programming languages; I admired the flexibility he had acquired in life, but I never paid it much attention. I left school completely, and worked my way up in the world of hospitality, until I became a beverage manager. It was a creative and lucrative job, but backbreaking and sometimes agonizing. A failed relationship pushed me out of Miami and closer to where my father now was, in Houston. I continued my path in hospitality, still unable to shake the dissatisfaction and anxiety I felt towards my nonexistent life goals. While in Houston I decided to slow down the management work and go back to community college. I changed my major, I hit that reset button as many times as I could. First cybersecurity, nope. Then game design, followed by government as a prelude to political science, then traditional music, more hospitality work in between, and then right back to sound engineering. Nothing seemed to stick. At the age of 72, my father decided to join a coding bootcamp at Rice University. Seeing him come back to that world after a stint in the world of wine, at that age, lit something up in my brain. Even with his diagnosis of almost total kidney failure, he was ecstatic to learn, and persevered. This sudden interest and his vigor to continue learning brought about an interest in the topic. Software? Engineering? Diving more and more each day into the field I came to a realization: They. Were. Everywhere. Building apps, improving essential websites, making it easier for you to get health insurance, get a ride, order groceries, pay your bills, learn a new subject, socialize with your friends. I started to truly view software engineers as the silent heroes of a society that is now inching its way to a third industrial revolution. They were the backbone. I was hooked. I now saw what my dad had seen for years, probably what he had first experienced working on the first IBM computers in the 80s; the potential to directly shape society through technology, to improve the ways in which we live, work, and play. My path today is clearer than ever. I am becoming a software engineer, precisely to **be** the change that I always wanted to see in the world, to help those who are less fortunate, to strive for a more egalitarian and effective society, and improve the way in which we as humans around the world live. And personally, to explore every conceivable intersection of software engieering and my interests: music, sound engineering, hospitality, and beyond. 
